# Quickstart

In this quickstart you will learn how to create your tests project [from scratch](#start-from-scratch), [from an existing model](#start-from-an-existing-model) or to [generate a code template for your models](#generate-a-code-template-for-your-models) and run your tests with altwalker. To learn how to install altwalker follow our [installation guide](./installation.md).

## Start from scratch

```
$ altwalker init test-project
```

The `init` command creates tests directory and initializez a git repository. The tests directory contains a sample model (`test-project/models/default.json`) and a python package package containing the template code for the model (`test-poject/tests`).

To run the tests for the `default.json` model, run the following commands:

```
$ cd test-project
$ altwalker online tests -m models/default.json "random(edge_coverage(100))"
```

The online command runs your tests inside `tests` package based on the path generated by GraphWalker from `default.json` model using the `random(edge_coverage(100))` stop condtion.

## Start from an existing model

```
$ altwalker init test-project -m path/to/model.json
```

The `init` command creates a tests directory with your model(s), generates the code template for the modele(s) and initializez a git repository.

After you create a tests directory , you can run your tests:

```
$ cd test-project
$ altwalker online tests -m models/model.json "random(vertex_coverage(100))"
```

## Generate a code template for your models

```
$ altwalker generate path/for/package/ -m path/to/models.json
```

The `generate` command will generate a test package named `tests` containig the code template for the modele(s), inside the `path/for/package/` directory.

## Next steps

Depending on how new you are to Altwalker you can checkout a [demo](./demo), understand how to [design your models](./modeling), how to [structure your tests](./tests-structure) or dig deeper into [altwalker cli](./cli).


## C# quickstart


### Start from scratch

```
$ altwalker init -l c# test-project
$ cd test-project
$ altwalker online -l c# test-project -m models/default.json "random(edge_coverage(100))"
```

`init` command creates _test-project_ directory and initializez a git repository. The directory contains a self hosted web app referencing `altwalker.executor` nuget, a model class were you can write your tests, a Program.cs containing an entry point with ExecutorService startup, and a simple model file `models/default.json` to get you started. 

```
/test-project/test-project/test-project.csproj
/test-project/test-project/ModelName.cs
/test-project/test-project/Program.cs
/test-project/models/default.json
```

`online` command starts the self hosted altwalker executor using `dotnet run`.  sends executeStep commands based on the path generated by GraphWalker from `default.json` model using the `random(edge_coverage(100))` stop condtion.

### Start from an existing model

```
$ altwalker init -l c# test-project -m path/to/model.json
$ cd test-project
$ altwalker online -l c# test-project -m models/model.json "random(vertex_coverage(100))"
```
`init` command creates _test-project_ directory and initializez a git repository. The directory contains a self hosted web app referencing `altwalker.executor` nuget, a class for each model to your tests, a Program.cs containing an entry point with ExecutorService startup.


### Generate a code template for your models

```
$ altwalker generate -l c# path/for/test-project/ -m path/to/models.json
```

The `generate` command creates _path/for/test-project_ directory containig _test-project.csproj_ file, Program.cs and  the code template for the model(s), .